Fair service, given how many free streaming avenues are available.  My enduring complaint is that there is no attention paid to the frequent requests for programs and movies I enjoy, popular as those programs and movies may be, the marketing analysts are using criteria/data that does not include the tastes of their long time subscribers.  It seems I just begin to explore one avenue of programs when they take them away, and movies that are geared for progressive minded individuals with eclectic taste are nearly non existent.  I find myself watching the same programs over and over, because most of their programming is of the B rating genre, both with television shows and movies. Too their credit, they are able to maintain a wide variety without advertising. Also, I have rarely owned tv in my long life, as I can not bring myself to ever pay for advertising.  For this reason, I do maintain my membership and the cost of the service is within my budget.
Netflix is HORRIBLE. Exploiting children and promoting pedophilia by finding a loop hole stating its art is absolutely disgusting. My whole family and many friends canceled our subscriptions after being loyal customers for years. Save our future generations by refusing to normalize pedophilia.
Love Netflix. I'm giving 3 stars because I can't stand the thin horizontal original movie previews that expand automatically when you move over to them. I have to view them so fast in order to keep going before it expands and takes up my whole screen.
I've been a Netflix account holder for many years. At one point I was able to access the American Netflix , and that was immense. After a while Netflix blocked all access to it. Since then the British Netflix has offered nothing worthwhile, bland content and a lack of fresh titles. . Other than the selection of animes I watch such as castlevania and dragon's dogma, attack on titam and JoJo's bizarre adventure,  these shows have prevented me from cancelling my account. However; Browsing through today and there is nothing but b- listed movies, politically correct sh1tty teen twilight shows, chick flicks and loads of European shows which I have no interest in watching. These shows suck ass. Being a British citizen using the UK region is the equivalent of being a 2nd rate citizen. They put on absolute crap. Netdiccks, you need to sort out this region situation or at least turn a blind eye to VPNs so us British customers can access the American version of Netflix. You're current listings are terrible, I wouldn't even wipe my chuff on your selection of gritty titles. Add fresh content, add new animes. Don't take years making series like better call saul, the longer you leave it. The more likely il cancel my account and wait until it comes out. To which il sign up, watch and uninstall.
Netflix has a variety of shows to watch. When watching a series, it plays continuosly with the exception of every so often you have to click to continue. Bring living Single on Netflix to watch the entire series. Just an additional note, when a famous person passes away, the movies that were once free to watch, should remain free to watch. Overall, great app!
Hardly ever watch Netflix these days (even though 'free' as part of my Sky package) mostly because of its patronising, dishonest & inaccurate recommendations. Its so-called percentage match system is clearly designed to promote Netflix profitability far more than its users genuine interests. Its only saving grace remains its sliver of investigative documentaries.
I have had, and watched Netflix for some time now, and I do enjoy some of the series and films that are on, although the same stuff is on there for months before you maybe get 1 or 2 new series or films.  But my main issue is with customer service.  I have a billing date of the 19th of each month, and for a while that was fine, pay day was the 15th, but since my pay day is now the 20th I went ahead and tried to change the date by 1 day ahead through the website, simple right, NOPE.  Error.  So I called customer service and told the gent what I needed and that the web was giving me an error, or so I tried, he kept cutting me off, talking over me, putting me on hold, telling me I had the date wrong (it was right in front of me) and would not accept what I was saying as truth.  He eventually took me through the process I had done in the first place and would you believe it 'ERROR' he simply said I'll pass the information on to the research team and that was all he could do and then hung up.  I do like re-watching 'The good place' and 'Sherlock' and things of the like but I think I may have to bite the bullet and switch to Sky.
I haven't watched anything on Netflix for ages.  There is nothing to watch apart from old stuff and this new horrible politically correct garbage.  Not entertaining in the least.  And now I see they are into kiddie fiddling, that of course is the last straw.  I am cancelling my account and have advised my family to do likewise.Disgusting origination that needs to be shutdown before other perverts get the idea it's okay to show this filth.
Unlike most who complain about Netflix, I really enjoy the ease of use and selection of shows. There are a lot of classics and some hidden gem netflix series/movies that you can find with high production value. My two star rating comes from their recent turn to more "woke" content. I don't like seeing movies and series about kids committing suicide and pedophilia. Make a different platform for that kinda content.
It's time to write the truth about Netflix.  Every day I "rummage" through Netflix looking for a different movie than what they had MONTHS before but find "maybe" one different movie.  And yes it stinks or I have subtitles.  Tell me everyone doesn't do this.  WHY do we write something "good" about a service that stinks?  It's not worth what I pay every month FOR THE SAME THING.
You can't beat the price for what you get. The only thing that I am not crazy about is the poor quality of the subbed foreign films that they have on their site. Stick to quality foreign films if you are going to show foreign films and not the really low low budget ones. Now they are starting with Spanish shows please that is why I have Netflex it's to avoid the stupid Spanish shows on regular tv! I do like watching certain series that I love on television but hate the commercials. I will wait and watch it on Netflex with no commercials and watch the whole season at my leisure you can not beat that for 15 dollars a month.  Some of their movies are really good and just not having to deal with commercials is a big plus.
Netflix it seems like they play the same thing over and over. The company usually don’t put to many new movies. I only end up getting this because my son loves watching it. I had found something better to watch then Netflix.  Saved your money you be happy you did then wasting on this
The king of streaming services! I am subscribed since 4 years and if they do not rise prices like crazy, I will always be a subscriber!
Great movies, love the fact you have great cartoons such as Total Drama. Home and Hotel Transylvania and Captain Under Pants all cartoon series. I’ve been watching Netflix for years. Love it all !!!!!
No words other then 🖕 YOU Netflix.  You done took ole reliable away. For why? So what they spent their time in a basement around a table smoking. Maybe you need it once in a while to chill out with taking all the good shows away. Then it was Spongebob and now this. Ol dumbass. I should put my foot up your NET to fix your FLIX...That 70s show was the cheese knees dude. #BringThat70sShowBack!!!!!!!!!!
Great service. Original content stranger things, the dark, decent selection of anime.  No ads.  Made me look into foreign films and tv.   My most used and favorite streaming service.
Terrible. They promise a free month first, but took the money instantly. They say the free month is not available in the UK?! Furthermore, they put me on the wrong package, and that could not be changed. They ignore all emails. I had to ring them, getting through on a poor connection to a US call centre. I hope it is sorted, but I would advise everybody not to give them any credit card details
I don't think you should automatically assume that users want to renew their account after a trial????? Give your customers the option to decide and dont just charge their credit cards without their permission... requested a refund and haven't received a reply from customer support.
Generally it's a very comfortable service in use, but it lacks plenty of movies and thus being too expensive if you think about it. So just pay for it if it really suits your movie preferences
Terrible, they dont even have a complaints department. They have taken money out of my bank account after i canceld it, now am overdrawn. There live chat said wait 30 days for money. Dont even has gas and electric!!!!!!
To whom it may concern, my experience watching Netflix. I realize 90% of Netflix movies, always make sure that the black women has: really short hair, bad wigs, manly-looking features, fat, out of shape, single/ single parent, gay or married to a white person. Netflix never shows a beautiful black dark melanin women, that looks healthy, well groom, or dark melanin families. It is very noticeable, the  question is why?
Someone in Venezuela hacked my account and upgraded me to premium.I contacted Netflix live chat.They claimed they couldn’t resolve my issue unless I gave them my full credit card number etc. So I phoned about fraudulent charges and they asked for my credit card number...There was a very long conversation, the staff member refused to answer my questions or explain how my credit card number would help him. I explained my bank wouldn’t protect me from fraud if I shared my credit card number and he became more condescending. He said my bank would have to deal with it, not Netflix, however my bank had already advised me that Netflix should refund me.At the end I requested to receive an email transcript of the conversation but this has not been provided.
When converting ledgens, books & comics to movies, I would enjoy the movies more if you wouldn't change the original story so much! My latest disappointment is the series "MONKEY", 1st, why isn't it titled "MONKEY KING", in this old Chinese legend the Monkey King had a very important weapon, his tail! Why would this very significant attribute not be emphasized in this series? Would have been very cool to watch him fight using his tail as a weapon, don't you think?
The worst application ever, search engine doesn't work nearly every time, it does not show me what I am looking for only to find out later that the thing that I was looking for is indeed there in a SUGGESTED category and it shows me that Netflix has only 3 or 2 movies (what can be true) with certain known actors like whaaat or it shows me movies with some other actor instead of the one that I look up, it deletes it's content (what is obvious but annoying) and it contains of a bunch of movies that are a WASTE of time and energy to me. There are a lot quality movies out there that have never been included in Netflix. I've got fed up with it and I am not going to pay for it, ever.
I have a Samsung q70 tv from 2020.  Gig speed from Verizon.  High for playback settings.Poor streaming quality every time I watch regardless of the hour of the day.  Netflix is robbing me of what I pay for.  I have Hulu amazon prime hbo max YouTube tv etc.. all quality all great.  Netflix is always low quality despite my settings.  Called Netflix customer care... after 49 mins there was no resolution.   They kept telling me to unplug my tv and plug it back in.  Seriously?  How will that help an app connection when everything else runs perfectlyI think I’ll pull the plug in Netflix.  A waste of 15.99 a month.  Their programming sucks anyways
Discovered a couple of weeks ago that I've been paying 8.99 per month twice, via PayPal which is legitimate and via my bank card which isn't. When I identified this on my bank statement I immediately contacted Netflix who refunded 6 months, however the bank identified over 2 years. My fault for not checking statements. Netflix apparently had an email address that was similar (a different ending) and was being paid for via my bank card, they deleted it. My proper Netflix account didn't show my activity correctly either so now I've cancelled completely as they are not trustworthy, wouldn't give me the fraudulent email information either.
Netflix is one of the newest thing we have to be able to watch while we're away from home. Netflix has great quality service. You can binge watch series that you may have wanted to watch but didn't want to watch from season 4. Just start it at season 1 and go. Don't have to be at home, you just take it with you. Sit outside by your pool and still watch your favorite movie. Netflix is up on new movies. Adding new ones everyday. They also show you what you might be interested in by what you watch. A big variety of new movies and series as well as old ones you might have forgotten.Lastly security check on Netflix should be more tight there by preventing hackers
I don't like them at all anymore. Last year I decided to cancel my Netflix they took money out without my permission they sent me a promo and I just looked at it but I wasn't working so I didn't order from them. I will SUE them if they try to get into my bank again. Their not worth it they keep showing the same shows and movies they say they got different movies etc. Nope never again.
Account kept getting hacked - even with new email address and phone added. I believe NF has poor security systems or are even hacking the accounts themselves.Netflix customer services was the worst I've ever encountered and they were exceptionally rude and aggressive with their manner and refusal to refund my money, even though I'd reported it within minutes and the fault is there's. I stood my ground and started copying and pasting legislation from UK consumer rights into the chat window and informed netflix that I was screenshotting their responses.As nf doesn't allow you to remove your payment details from an inactive account and therefore it just sits there waiting to be hacked and exploited. I believe the fault is their's. I've since closed my account entirely but even this took 4 days to get sorted with a rude response.This is an absolutely atrocious company that cares nothing about your safety and security.AVOID
I have been Netflix customer for the last 3-4 years and this time due to the COVID pandemic asked the customer namely Nevelle July if they can help me with a discount so I can continue. I was not not asking for 80% nor 50% off. I just asked if they can just give me a discount for just 1 month and that to what best they can. But to my surprise this customer care agen I am sure from India said I do not offer discounts even if you are an old customer. WHAT THE HELL is NETFLIX customer care people coming from ??? Very angry and now I will never come back to NETFLIX EVER. GOODBY FOR GOOD. RG
