FRANKFURT—Germany’s economy is recovering faster than was anticipated a few months ago, helped by a mild and short coronavirus lockdown, a large-scale fiscal stimulus and Berlin’s close trade links with China, according to new government forecasts.

The country’s gross domestic product should contract by 5.8% this year, a 0.5 percentage-point improvement on earlier forecasts and on par with the decline recorded in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, the economy ministry said on Tuesday.

Germany’s growth upgrade reflects the nation’s success in cushioning the coronavirus’s economic toll thanks to a light lockdown that left most factories and offices open, large-scale testing that helped to keep Covid-19 casualties low and heavy government spending that kept the pockets of furloughed workers topped up throughout the downturn.

Europe’s largest economy, traditionally reliant on international trade, is also benefiting from a marked rebound in China and other Asian countries. Exports to China, Germany’s largest trading partner, increased by 15.4% in June compared with the same month a year earlier, the federal statistics office said last month. Exports to the U.S. dropped by 20.7% over the same period.

“Overall we expect to be looking at a V-shaped economic recovery,” German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier told reporters in Berlin. The shallower recession “means businesses have room to breathe, and many jobs won’t be lost,” he said.

German unemployment fell for a second straight month in August after adjusting for the season, and the number of employed people rose in July, suggesting a turning point in the labor market too, according to data published Tuesday.

Business surveys published Tuesday underscored how fragmented the recovery has been in Europe. They suggest that the manufacturing industry is expanding in Germany and Italy, but contracting in France and Spain. Economies such as Spain and the U.K. are expected to contract roughly twice as much as Germany this year.

Household spending has proven particularly resilient in Germany thanks to government stimulus programs that are by far the largest in Europe. Berlin has propped up businesses and households via direct payments, tax relief and loan guarantees, subsidized millions of furloughed jobs and invested billions in digitization, electric cars, battery development and charging stations.

Those vast interventions were made possible by years of accumulated budget surpluses and ultralow government borrowing costs.

The ministry’s new forecasts assume that Germany will avoid a second round of aggressive measures to restrict social contacts over the coming months, despite a recent surge of Covid-19 cases across Europe.

France and Spain have been reporting thousands of new cases each day. Germany has also seen cases creep up since early July, but last week showed a drop in new cases for the first time in seven weeks.

“I am convinced we can and will prevent a second lockdown,” Mr. Altmaier said. “We have managed to gain knowledge [of the virus]. Doctors have a much better understanding of where and how it spreads.”

Germany’s exposure to overseas demand via its large exporters means the country is well positioned to benefit from the powerful rebound under way in China. Rising sales to markets including China and Turkey helped to drive the fastest increase in German export orders since April 2018, according to a closely watched business survey published by data provider Markit on Tuesday.

But it also makes the nation vulnerable while the virus isn’t under control around the world. The interrupted reopening of the U.S. economy, in particular, is creating headaches for German business executives. Germany’s total exports are expected to contract by around 12% this year, the economy ministry said.

Mr. Altmaier warned that the main risk to Germany’s economic recovery is the rising number of virus cases, and weak virus-fighting strategies, in some important trading partners. He said he was concerned about the high rate of infections in the U.S., Germany’s largest export partner. “That disturbs me,” he said.

Meanwhile, millions of German workers are still tapping short-time work subsidies, which effectively pay them to stay at home. Roughly 11% of employees may have been using such schemes in August, according to Commerzbank. Economists worry that these and other government subsidies could keep alive unproductive “zombie” companies, delaying necessary shifts of capital and workers toward more productive uses.
