South Africa’s economy recorded its worst slump in decades in the second quarter, when Africa’s most industrialised nation remained mired in one of the world’s strictest Covid-19 lockdowns. 

Gross domestic product fell 16.4 per cent in the three months to the end of June compared with the previous quarter, equating to an annualised rate of 51 per cent, official figures showed on Tuesday — the sharpest decline since the 1990s.  

The data cover a period when a national lockdown ordered by President Cyril Ramaphosa to control the spread of coronavirus infections was at its most intense and had shut down all but essential industries.

The South African Reserve Bank expects GDP overall this year to fall more than 7 per cent, the South African economy’s worst contraction since the Great Depression of the 1930s.

“The GDP data is shocking. Although it is likely the weakest point of the year for the South African economy, growth forecasts may be subject to further downward revision,” said Razia Khan, chief Africa and Middle East economist for Standard Chartered.

Activity in leading labour-intensive sectors of the economy plunged in the second quarter. The government statistics office said mining and manufacturing had led the decline.

Last month, Mr Ramaphosa ended most lockdown restrictions, including a ban on alcohol and tobacco sales, as evidence mounted that South African cases and hospitalisation rates were slowing. Almost 650,000 cases and more than 15,000 deaths have been recorded, making the country the worst-hit in Africa. 

On Monday, South Africa recorded fewer than 1,000 new daily cases for the first time since May, when surges in major cities such as Cape Town were beginning.

But significant constraints on economic activity remain, including a nightly curfew. International travel is also still barred, with borders closed.

Before the pandemic hit, Mr Ramaphosa was already struggling to reverse a decade of economic stagnation caused by widespread corruption and mismanagement under Jacob Zuma, his predecessor, and deep structural problems including persistent rolling power blackouts.

South Africa had already entered its second recession in as many years in the first quarter. GDP per capita has been declining for most of the last decade as it failed to outstrip population growth.

The economy’s reopening has been hobbled in the past week by the most severe outages in months as power stations broke down at Eskom, the state-owned utility that generates nearly all of South Africa’s electricity.

“It is undeniable that the African National Congress government’s obdurate refusal, over years, to implement structural reforms left the economy vulnerable when the Covid-19 crisis hit,” said Geordin Hill-Lewis, shadow minister of finance for the main opposition Democratic Alliance.

The lockdown had “turned a pre-Covid recession into South Africa’s worst GDP contraction in history”, he added.