“Hard times are here” was how chancellor Rishi Sunak greeted this morning’s data showing the UK officially in its first recession — defined as two consecutive quarters of negative growth — since the global financial crisis.

The 20.4 per cent fall in output — the biggest UK quarterly fall ever and the largest in any of the world’s major developed economies — led to calls from business groups for “bold action”, especially as government job support schemes begin to wind down.

Separate data yesterday showed the UK had shed almost three-quarters of a million jobs during the crisis but this was still “just the lull before the storm” according to one analyst.

The dominance of the UK’s consumer-facing service sector — accounting for 80 per cent of the economy — is one reason for the magnitude of the fall, but output was down in all sectors. Productivity and consumer spending also plunged.

Problems are brewing at regional level too. Struggling companies have warned they will be pushed closer to collapse by the resumption of business rates collection by councils after months of forbearance. The pandemic’s effect on the London office market is also yet to be felt.

There were some grains of comfort. Activity picked up in June as the lockdown was lifted and retail sales figures yesterday showed shoppers gradually returning to stores. The government’s “ Eat Out to Help Out” deal, subsidising restaurant meals during August, was also off to a good start, being used 10.5m times in its first week.

Ultimately, the size of the second quarter drop is less important than what happens next, said the FT Editorial Board. “Coronavirus has opened a new chapter in Britain’s economic history, but it is by no means over. The months to come will determine how the story eventually plays out.”

Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser at Allianz, warned against investor belief in gold as a “must-have” asset. Too much faith was being built into the premise that central banks would continue to protect investors by intervening whenever markets plunged, he said.

The EU’s plan to issue €750bn of bonds to fund its Covid-19 recovery poses no immediate threat to the bloc’s credit rating, according to the biggest agencies, despite divisions between member states on how to pay the money back.

Profits at M&G plunged 57 per cent in the first half of the year as nervous investors withdrew from the asset manager’s funds during the pandemic sell-off. More market volatility should be expected, said chief executive John Foley, who added: “The impacts [of this crisis] are going to be with us for a long time.”

Genesis Healthcare, one of the biggest nursing home operators in the US, pleaded for government aid to stave off bankruptcy caused by pandemic-related losses. In common with the rest of the industry, the company is facing a dearth of new residents and increased staffing costs. Property group Colony Capital revealed on Monday it had handed over the keys to 36 care homes for the elderly after defaulting on debt secured on the assets.

UK food delivery service Just Eat reported a 44 per cent surge in revenues in the first half of the year in its first results since regulators approved its £6bn merger with Amsterdam-based Takeaway.com. Domino’s Pizza profited similarly from hungry locked-down Brits and the rise of staycations — as well as a late finish to football’s Premier League. However, much of the food delivery market is unprofitable, says the Lex opinion column.

The rapid increase in ecommerce during the pandemic has meant a rush for warehouse space. Amazon is opening 33 “fulfilment centres” in the US this year and is said to be taking up a 2.3m square foot warehouse on the edge of London, which would be one of the largest in the UK. Investors in logistics “are back with a vengeance” said one company chief.

Eurozone industrial production bounced back in June but less than expected by analysts and still far below its pre-pandemic position. European economics commentator Martin Sandbu warned the EU not to repeat the mistakes of the global financial crisis, urging the bloc to suspend its fiscal rules.

Former UK prime minister Tony Blair, in an article for the FT, called for rich nations to help developing countries fight the pandemic. For their part, poorer countries can show leadership “by setting focused aims, providing their international partners with clear and precise requests for support, underpinned by effective command and operational structures with the head of state in the driving seat,” he said.

New Zealand’s central bank is expanding its quantitative easing programme following a fresh outbreak of Covid-19, which threatens to put a brake on the country’s recovery. Its economy has performed better than expected over recent months following its record of 102 days without any new infections.